# Big-Data-Covid-19-Analysis
**A walk in the Spark: Covid County and State analysis of USA**

The documentation file in the repository(found at the top of the files section) consists of all the primary details of the project including the methodology followed. The ipynb notebook can also be found within the main directory under the same name. Both of these can be referred to have a deep dive into the aforementioned project.


Analysis of COVID-19 can unearth a rich array of possibilities, predictions and insights due to a plethora of available data from different domains which sometimes not only helps us develop some intuition from the past, but also make us understand how might our future stand. My current goal in this data movement against COVOD-19 is to understand how the disease has affected us at an even more microscopic level such as counties and states within the United States before diving deep into the global level where even diverse fields of data is available to use. 

Once the underlying patterns at this level are identified, the same can be aimed to be executed at a global level where a lot more parameters are at hand and a lot less clean data available. This project intends to understand how the virus has spread across different counties, which ones were most affected,  how did each of the states fare whilst battling the pandemic. A hypothesis one can think of, when are the surge in the cases the highest, festive times? Interesting questions like these can be answered. This information at microscopic level, especially while understanding the trends like during what period there were a surge of cases, in what counties surge continued for a prolonged period of time and what could be the possible predictions based on the cleaned data at hand can be provided to Government authorities to take precautionary measures and prevent another wave of pandemic starting at a local level!

The repository consists of the ipynb file that was used along with a brief analysis overview as well. Further ML part for this problem could be taken up as a future project to see whether a model can predict the number of cases that could come up using Machine Learning algorithms, but that is for a later date!
